# Stride - Project Summary

This project uses a Personal Knowledge Management System (PKMS) known as Stride. I gave it this name because it is a task manager app that I will certainly be using for future assignments and would like to get into a rhythm of being on top of homework, finishing them in stride. I originally had conversations about ideas with ChatGPT, seeing what may be a good idea to start the project with. Ultimately to begin the project, I used Google Gemini to create a TKinter application using python, as I felt familiar with it from previous CSC courses I have taken at DePaul University. This original model did not use OpenAI to power responses, rather it used a high school natural language processor python program I wrote when I took a computer science class in my senior year. This model could not understand anything I wanted it to, so I decided to use Microsoft Visual Studio Code instead, and moved all the files into a csc299-project folder that VS Code could access and edit. I then purchased credit from OpenAI, and attached the model to Stride's AI. From here, I was able to tune the Stride AI into understanding the task management system, and give the model a way to interact with the tasks. The way the PKMS works is two programs, one is the task manager and the other is the Stride AI. First, to download the application, download the stride_installer.zip from the repository on GitHub, and extract all files. Then run the INSTALL.bat file, and a command prompt will make sure there is a valid API that can be used to connect to OpenAI, as Stride's AI uses OpenAI models to run. After this, a desktop shortcut will be installed, and running the shortcut opens the Stride application. All of the files will be extracted to a single folder named "Stride" that holds all the information needed to run the application using OpenAI. The task manager and Stride AI work alongside each other. The task manager shows the user a list of their tasks, along with the status and ID number of each task. There is also a "View More" button that when clicked, opens a pop up with a detailed description of the task. If the user wants to manually change anything about any tasks, they can double click on any task and make manual edits. The Stride AI chat bot is where the user can tell the bot to make changes to the list. This includes adding, removing, completing, undoing, or editing tasks. The Stride AI picks out a shorthand name for your task, gives it a brief description automatically, and adds it to the task manager list. Part of the Stride AI is the verification system, which will detect errors under its three rules: the prompt that was entered by the user has been achieved, the task manager and Stride AI share identical lists, and any updates to either list are visually shown to the user in the task manager. While the verification system runs, the user is locked from making any input in order to let the AI correct anything it needs to. Until all three rules are met, the Stride AI runs hidden background prompts until all the requirements are completed. The Stride AI also runs background updates after every single input and output, in order to ensure that the task manager is updated with the best information. This sometimes can cause the Stride AI to work slower than the task manager updates, causing the verification system to detect problems and work to fix them as the tasks update. The update system was the hardest part of the project for me, as I ran into many issues while trying to align the task manager with the Stride AI. By updating at the wrong time, the model sometimes would see a synced list and return a correct response, and then changes would go through and the task management system would look wildly different than Stride's list. The verification system was the most important implication in this project in my opinion, as it allowed the program to correct itself instead of getting something wrong and leaving it. This solved the issue of updates being out of sync, because the verification system made many checks to ensure that the updates were being made at the right time, and correcting them if they weren't. Many recurring errors stopped appearing after the verification system started to work, however it did cause token usage to spike much higher than I wanted it to, as the system continuously prompts to fix itself on the spot. The Stride AI also uses a memory system to store deleted tasks in case the user wants to recover them later. This allows the application to be closed and reopened later without any loss of data. The memory is also connected to the verification system, so the Stride AI can make sure it didn't delete any incorrect files, but in the case that does happen, the verification system instantly recovers and inserts the task back to where it belongs in the list. There were many iterations of the Stride AI model and task manager, and documentation of the creation process can be found on a .pdf file on the GitHub repository. The application is based off of the Notion PKMS more than anything, as I found Notion to be the type of program I wanted to make. I am very proud of this project overall, and will very likely use the model to track future homework assignments. One of the reasons I decided to spend time creating the easiest download I knew how was because I hope to share this project with close friends and family that would be interested. If given more time, I would have spent it making the application more customizable, because during the development process I was the only one using the program and I designed the application to my liking, and I feel that getting other people to test it would give more feedback than editing the application to how I want it to be.
